---
layout: post
title: Blog 18
---
### The problem with social networks

Tristan and Daniel talk about social networks having a multitude of problems:

1.) Social networks monetize by selling ads.\\
2.) Social networks compete in the attention economy to sell the most ads.\\
3.) What captures the most attention to maximize time-on-site is what appeals to the "lower angels" of the users (limbic highjack to promote addiction).\\
4.) Maximizing addictive content has negative consequences like polarizing opinions and other generally unproductive and harm-causing behaviours.\\
5.) Social networks tend to defend themselves by arguing they are just "giving the users what they want". Not uncommon to hear drug-dealers using this same argument.\\
6.) Since the negative effects are often insidious, legislative bodies tend to lag behind in regulation. Social networks also have plausible deniability against most accusations.\\

I have been thinking about ConFlo as a social network that helps resolve conflicts by letting people debate in a structured way and identifying thier differences to influence a resolution. 
However, people that don't spend most time talking to others. They spend most time talking to themselves.
They are technically engaged in a social network of one. Let's expand this idea further:

1.) If people can make fallacies in a debate, they probably make those in their own thinking.\\
2.) Conflicts are identified when two people disagree and ConFlo supposedly acts to moderate and identify these differences based on their inputs. But this process can only be done if a person just talks to himself as if there's two people. \\
3.) One problem is that two people can have opposing systems of beliefs, for example, an athiest arguing with a Christian about the age of the Earth do not only differ in their views on Geology but actually differ in their belief systems. Those systems can be internally congruent though, and it may be the case that no logical fallacies can be detected in a line of thinking with fundamentally wrong presuppositions. \\
4.) The oppoite of a social network of many is a social network of one.\\
5.) The opposite of a social network that uses A.I. to harvest your data and leverage it against you is one that uses A.I. and data to help you thrive. \\
6.) In a sort of way, imagine a personal guardian that knows you better than yourself and helps you be aware of all your imperfections and help you thrive based on your values. A friend that serendipitously helps you become a better person, and it can define "better" better than you. You can call it a "shrink", or even a friend.\\
7.) This requires a completely different system of incentives. \\
8.) Your data can be private if there's no incentives to monetize. 

More on this later.

Also, I have found that my max attention given a project is around 2-3 weeks. It's better for me to have quick turn-around time for any given project. 1 week researching/planning and 2 weeks to prototyping is best. Otherwise, it's easy to me to lose interest. If I am to be able to create any big projects, I must build them modularly so that the constituents are stand-alone products.
