---
layout: post
title: Blog 1
---
### Introduction
Cooperation is the building blocks of civilisation and effective cooperation requires effective communication. Conversation is perhaps the most preferred method to verbally communicate news and ideas and foster building of relationships and collaboration. 


Debating is a more formal type of structured conversation used to resolve disagreements between oppositions about a topic. Although resolution or a dialectical conclusion are desired outcomes, they are not necessarily always the results of a debate. 

### The Problems
In a heated debate/conversation, it is easy to be victims of common conversational pitfalls, the following are some examples:

1 - Parallel conversations where oppositions appear to be having a coherent discussion but are actually talking at each other about different topics/arguing about different points. 


2 - Bad faith - In a debate, one party may be arguing with the goal of winning the argument instead of seeking to reach a higher understanding of the opposition’s point of view. 


3 - Formal Fallacies - Any debate is built of some set of presuppositions/premises, which are statements that are assumed to be true for oppositions to build their arguments upon. Good arguments are logically sound, which is to say their conclusions can be derived logically from the premises. Formal fallacies are committed when one draws conclusions that do not logically follow the premises. 


4 - Informal Fallacies - While formal fallacies are defined as logical errors or tricks of reasoning, informal fallacies are more dependent on misuse of language and evidence. Informal fallacies are much trickier to spot and are prevalent when oppositions are arguing in bad faith. 


5 - Difference in fundamental axioms/presuppositions - Any debate is built on the agreement on fundamental axioms. Axioms are statements that are self-evident and presumed to be true(e.g. 2+2=4), you cannot argue about statistics with someone who denies the axiomatic nature of mathematics. 


6 - Difference in definitions - It wouldn’t be clear what two parties are arguing about unless they can agree on the definitions of the keywords relevant to the topic of debate. 


ConFlo is GPT-3-powered debate/conversation moderator for difficult/contentious conversations. It seeks to identify logical fallacies and possible causes of disagreement and steers the conversation towards a constructive outcome. 


I hope ConFlo becomes a useful tool for people with differing/polarising opinions to reach a higher, dialectical understanding. I also hope it can take out the emotional turmoil of having your beliefs challenged and encourage people to argue in good faith with an open-mindedness geared towards learning. If ConFlo cannot steer a conversation towards resolution, I hope the worst case is that it can help people agree to disagree. I have personally witnessed too many breakdowns of relationships and cooperation because they fall victims to easily identifiable conversational traps.


### To Ponder
1 - Disagreement -> Conversation -> Conclusion -> Action

Some conversations can be relatively inconsequential while others can change the course of humanity. Remember the circus that was the 2020 US presidential debate?

And even if two parties can have a rational discussion and reach a conclusion, how do we ensure that the outcome is actionable? (smart contracts?)


2 - The conversation blockchain 

Debates, monologues, dialogues, speeches…. Can we build an A.I that can extract human wisdom from a corpus of conversations to aid humanity to become better stewards of technology and power?


3 - Public vs interpersonal conversations (logos, ethos, pathos)

Public debates are usually on topics that can be resolved with verifiable data. i.e. There is an objective nature to what is right/wrong (given that you accept certain axioms and trustworthiness of data source).


Interpersonal debates are usually about difference in value structures/ideals/sentiments/feelings/beliefs that are not objectively quantifiable. Sometimes, the best outcome is to just acknowledge and respect the other person’s feelings.


For the next few days I will be doing more research on conversational traps and conflict resolution. I will also play around with GPT-3 to test its capabilities and limitations in identifying fallacies and context of conversations. 