---
layout: post
title: Blog 11
---
### Vue

Finished the Vue crash course. Here's some things I learned today.

1.) Props inherit stuff from parents, you should not change prop variables even though you can. Data is used as the memory of the component itself.\\
2.) When designing the component structure tree, it should be decided who should have the data and who will inherit it, this will decide what props the children should have.\\
3.) v-model is a two way binding of user input to the form and the data of the component.\\
4.) if you want reusable components, you should make events generic, then customize what they do at the parent component where you implement it.\\
5.) the workflow from the tutorial prioritizes modularity. create an application with methods that work locally first(no persisting data change, only updating the instance view), and then implement the back-end (usually fake one first, like json-server), then update the methods to interface with the back-end\\
6.) Making async requests then await promises then do something with the fetched data.\\
7.) Router stuff

Moving on from the tutorial, I should make a simple application with some styling, maybe just something pretty that calls the openai API? 

I think maybe I will work on making a pretty version of the "wise-man" app. This will consolidate what I have learned from the tutorial in terms of organizing component structre, however, I won't be using a back-end for it nor a router, I will just need to make a SPA with a few components. Should be an easy undertaking not taking up more than a day or two. I can even include "Uncle" in there. It should be interesting. 
